hi this is press talker we'll start out
the proof by noticing that two squared
is equal to two plus two or we're adding
two to itself for a total of two times
this pattern is true for other numbers
when we have three squared that's the
same as adding three to itself for a
total of three times
similarly four squared is equal to four
added to itself for a total of four
times in general x squared is equal to X
added to itself for a total of x times
this is the equation that will be the
basis for our paradox we'll start out
with x squared is equal to X added to
itself for a total of x times now we're
going to use some calculus we're going
to take the derivative of each side the
derivative of x squared is equal to two
X on the right hand side the derivative
of X is equal to one the derivative of X
again is equal to one and then we keep
adding this so each time we add a 1 to
the derivative of X and we do this for a
total of x times if we add one to itself
a total of x times we find that 2x is
equal to X and this is a problem because
this has to be true for every value of x
so it doesn't matter if we put x equals
1 x equals 1/2 we end up with the result
that 2 is equal to 1 and this is strange
because it seems like every step we've
done has been valid but we've come to a
contradictory result so can you figure
it out I bet if you pose this to your
math teacher many times your math
teacher won't know exactly where the
proof went wrong but I'm going to show
it to you so that
can explain to your teacher why this
proof is incorrect the beginning
equation is correct x squared is equal
to X plus itself a total of x times when
we take the derivative of x squared we
get 2x that's correct but the mistake
comes at this step when we take the
derivative of X added to itself x times
we cannot simply add each term one by
one by taking the derivative and there's
a reason for this when we add X to
itself a total of x times this is not a
simple linear equation or we could take
the derivative of each term we really
have x times itself so in order to
compute the derivative of X plus X a
total of x times we really have a sum
that's involving X so in order to take
this derivative we need to use the
product rule so we take the first term
times the derivative of the second so we
have x times one plus the second term of
x times the derivative of the first term
X to get one when we do it this way we
find that 2x is equal to 2x and of
course this is true and so there's no
paradox at all here there's no
contradiction so the problem in the
proof is you can't simply take the
derivative of each term because it's not
a simple linear expression it's an
expression of X that involves a total of
x times I hope you liked this video
please subscribe to my channel I make
videos on math and game theory you can
catch me on my blog mind your decisions
you can also follow that on Facebook
patreon and Google Plus you can also
catch me at pressure Locker on Twitter
Instagram Tumblr and Pinterest and
please check out my books I've written
some pretty cool books about math I
think you'll enjoy them there's some
mental math tricks and math puzzles and
there's a bunch of game theory as well
so check it out there's a link in the
video description and thanks for
watching